README.md, before:

# Airline Data Query Assistant 🛫

A natural language interface for querying airline/flight data using LLMs

## Features

- ✈️ Natural language to SQL conversion using LLMs
- 🔍 SQL query validation and execution
- 📊 Results conversion to human-readable format
- 🌐 Web interface for easy interaction
- ✅ Comprehensive testing suite
- 📁 Structured project layout with Poetry dependency management

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+

### Setup
# Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/gtmray/smart-air
cd smart-air
```

# Install poetry
```bash
pip install poetry
```

# Install dependencies
```bash
poetry install
```

# Configure environment variables for LLM access and API configurations(in .env file)
```bash
HOSTNAME=localhost
PORT=<YOUR_AVAILABLE_PORT>
OPENAI_API_TYPE=azure
OPENAI_API_BASE=<YOUR_OPENAI_API_BASE>
OPENAI_API_VERSION=<YOUR_API_VERSION>
OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=<YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME>
```

# Store raw files downloaded from Kaggle using KaggleHub
```bash
https://github.com/Kaggle/kagglehub
```

# Create database
```bash
poetry run python src/sqlite_db/create.py
```

# Start the application
```bash
poetry run src/app/main.py
```

# Access the web interface
```bash
http://localhost:<YOUR_ASSIGNED_PORT>
```

## Future Improvements

- Integrate industry standard database
- Add support for real-time streaming data
- Explore multi-model orchestration for complex queries
- Expand testing coverage to include performance benchmarks

Commit message:

Add: Kaggle download info addition

README.md, after:

# Airline Data Query Assistant 🛫

A natural language interface for querying airline/flight data using LLMs

## Features

- ✈️ Natural language to SQL conversion using LLMs
- 🔍 SQL query validation and execution
- 📊 Results conversion to human-readable format
- 🌐 Web interface for easy interaction
- ✅ Comprehensive testing suite
- 📁 Structured project layout with Poetry dependency management

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+

### Setup
# Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/gtmray/smart-air
cd smart-air
```

# Install poetry
```bash
pip install poetry
```

# Install dependencies
```bash
poetry install
```

# Configure environment variables for LLM access and API configurations(in .env file)
```bash
HOSTNAME=localhost
PORT=<YOUR_AVAILABLE_PORT>
OPENAI_API_TYPE=azure
OPENAI_API_BASE=<YOUR_OPENAI_API_BASE>
OPENAI_API_VERSION=<YOUR_API_VERSION>
OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=<YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME>
```

# Store raw files downloaded from Kaggle using KaggleHub to src/sqlite_db/raw_data
See: https://github.com/Kaggle/kagglehub or download from kaggle UI

# Create database
```bash
poetry run python src/sqlite_db/create.py
```

# Start the application
```bash
poetry run src/app/main.py
```

# Access the web interface
```bash
http://localhost:<YOUR_ASSIGNED_PORT>
```

## Future Improvements

- Integrate industry standard database
- Add support for real-time streaming data
- Explore multi-model orchestration for complex queries
- Expand testing coverage to include performance benchmarks
